Pro Community Manager.
I hope everybody is having a great Wednesday.
Thank you so much for joining us all today for the demo and thank you Ryan for the great
demo.
I guess we could kick things off by just introducing ourselves over here now that we're in the
Q&A portion.
I'm Rachel Dempsey.
I'm our Pro Community Manager here at Posit and I host a variety of different community
events so it's so nice to see you all here.
Ryan, do you want to introduce yourself again?
Yeah, so I'm Ryan.
I was the guy whose voice you just heard for the last 30 minutes.
I'm a Data Science Advisor here at Posit and just really pumped to have this kind of live
interactive session where we can answer any questions you had about all that stuff I talked
about or any Posit questions, happy to help.
And then we're also joined by my colleague Dave and I'll allow him to introduce himself.
Hey, I'm Dave Grunwald.
I'm a Manager in Solutions Engineering and I'm also here to help answer any of your technical
questions around Quarto or otherwise.
Looking forward to it.
Awesome.
And thank you all again so much for joining us here.
As a reminder, there is a Slido link open where you can ask questions anonymously too
and it's just shown on the screen here but we can copy it over into the chat right now
as well.
But you can also ask questions just live in YouTube and I can pull them up on the screen.
And so one of the questions that was asked a bit earlier during the demo, which I thought
might be helpful to cover is, what exactly does pinning data mean?
Yeah, and I can take this one.
So pins is something I use all the time.
And the way I like to think of it and kind of the way the package is named, pins, I think
of it like a sticky note or a piece of paper.
You walk into your office and you pin that sticky note or piece of paper to a board on
your office.
And then your colleagues can walk by, they can see that piece of paper, they can interact
with it, they can use that piece of paper.
So it's a great way to take any object you've created in R, that could be a data set like
we did today.
It could also be a model, any other R object.
You can also do this in Python.
So definitely if you're a Python developer, you can still pin data.
And it allows you to take that data and pin it to a location, a board.
That can be Connect, like we did today.
It could be another location.
And it allows your other, your future self, any of your colleagues to incorporate that
pin data set into their workflows.
So rather than, for example, maybe you have a Shiny application, and if you're deploying
it to Connect, you might have to kind of include that data with the application, that bundle.
But if you use pins, you can just publish just the code and the Shiny application can
reach out to that pin and pull it in automatically, so you don't have to kind of attach that data
set to the application itself.
Yeah, pins is great.
It's a really good tool for building out some powerful workflows.
Thanks so much, Ryan.
I was just going to cover a quick question about the demos themselves.
So we host these end to end workflow demos once a month.
So the last Wednesday of every month at 11am Eastern Time.
And so if you had received an email from us, or if you saw it on social posts, or maybe
on LinkedIn, you may have seen this link here on the screen, pos.it slash team demo.
And that will allow you to add these events to your calendar.
And because it's a new demo each week, that link isn't actually updating, but it will
send you to the playlist of all of those demos.
So when you add that to your calendar, it will send you to the end to end workflows
demo playlist.
And you should see three there right now that you can go back to and you can view that content
too.
But thank you for the question about that in the chat too.
So another question that I see over in YouTube right now is from Darren.
And Darren asks, is Blastula still recommended as the package for customized email reports?
Yeah.
Dave, do you want to take that one or you want me to take it?
Sure.
So with Connect, you can still do that scheduling and you will get an email.
But if you want to do that customized kind of whether it's an HTML email or more conditional
formatting, that's where Blastula still is our preferred method.
But again, whenever you do set up a content that's deployed to Connect, you will get notified
when that is rerun.
So if you just want to know that your content is available, Connect does that by default.
But if you want that more customization, Blastula is a great way to do that.
And just to follow up there as well, I was talking to some of our Corto engineers, and
this is a functionality coming to Corto very soon.
So stay tuned.
Awesome.
Thank you.
Okay.
So another question.
Let's see.
So one, one question from earlier that we didn't get to cover yet in the chat was, is
there any advancement in allowing Python variables in Corto marked on text the way R can?
Yeah.
So at the moment, we do just support the inline execution with R. Having Python is
on the roadmap, but at the current version of Corto, we just have the inline execution
of R code.
Great.
Thank you.
And I'll copy a few questions over from Slido as well.
Sorry, I forgot about that for a second.
But a question over on Slido, and thank you, Tim, was, are Corto themes compatible with
PDF output at this time?
Yeah, I can start with that question, and Dave, you can certainly add any other color
to it.
But the great thing about Corto and creating custom themes is that you can choose how to
build that theme for a specific output.
So if you want to, for example, for the demo today, I created a simple theme that really
was tailored to an HTML output.
But if I wanted to, I could create a custom theme specific for a PDF output, or both.
So that's kind of like the power of being able to customize your own themes, and it's
totally up to you, your choice, your organization.
Only thing I'll add is with PDF, there are some features that won't translate one to
one from HTML to PDF.
So just be aware that you might see some nuances that emerge, but for the most part, we did
try to simplify that as much as possible.
Great.
And I see Heather had asked over on YouTube, I saw at the end that the HTML file of the
Corto report would be attached to a scheduled email.
Is it possible to have the body of the email include the themed Corto content?
Yeah, I think that's kind of relating back to that Blaschula question we were talking
about.
So if you do want that HTML content, like those plots, those tables that you have inside
a Corto document actually embedded in the email, then you really want to, for right
now, consider using our markdown with Blaschula.
But this functionality is coming very soon to Corto as well, so stay tuned for that.
Great.
And I just put the link to Blaschula package in the chat as well.
And so another question that was from a bit earlier, I think Rebecca asked, but I like
to keep a tight and unambiguous link between code and output, which I do in RStudio by
including code in the markdown, but Connect keeps a tight link between source and published.
So is there no need to do that?
David, any thoughts on this one?
I might need a little bit more expansion on the question.
I don't want to assume I know what you're trying to get at.
And feel free to put some more context in the YouTube chat, and then we can go back
to that question too.
Okay.
One other question I saw in YouTube is, our Org has Workbench and Connect.
Is there a benefit to investing in Teams beyond adding Package Manager?
Yeah, I can start with that one.
So Positeam, again, as a reminder, it's a kind of a bundled offering of our three professional
tools.
So two of which looks like this user has Workbench and Connect, and there's a third one called
Package Manager, which does essentially as its name implies, it helps control, manage,
also organize and distribute all those open source R and Python packages your team uses.
It also allows you to host any internally developed packages your team's working on.
So I would say from the context of this question, adding Package Manager, it rounds out that
team offering.
And so that's something important to know.
I would suggest talking to your sales representative here at Posit, because in terms of how licensing
works, there's actually a major advantage to adding Package Manager to Positeam.
But our tools are modular as well.
Some teams get a lot of value out of just Connect, some like just Workbench, some like
just Package Manager, but they all play very nicely together.
And that's why we kind of offer this rounded kind of compiled offering of Positeam.
Thanks, Ryan.
I just wanted to go back to the question about running Python inline code, because we had
a little bit of an issue with transferring people over from the demo to the Q&A.
Would you be able to just cover that again?
Yeah, certainly.
So if you're familiar with R Markdown, you're able to do inline execution of code for R.
That is a feature that is included in Quarto.
It's on the roadmap to get Python, but at this time, it is not currently supported.
There would be roundabout ways of doing that with Reticulate, although I might say that
we would it would be much simpler once we get that Python inline execution to actually
work.
Thanks, Dave.
And I just wanted to remind everybody that if you want to ask questions anonymously,
you can do so using the Slido link on the screen, but you can also just ask questions
directly in the YouTube chat, and then we can copy them over to the screen.
But while we're waiting for a few other questions to come in, I also wanted to add that if you
are curious to learn more about Posit Workbench, Connect, or Package Manager, or you just want
to talk one-on-one instead of in this demo environment and Q&A, please feel free to schedule
a time to chat with us.
You can use that link I just showed here on the screen, and I'll copy it over into the
chat.
Sometimes it's just really helpful to know or to reach out and know if other people across
your company are already using our tools as well.
I know sometimes in huge organizations, it's hard to know who has access to what tools
across the organization.
So I just wanted to add that there as well.
And again, we also have a series of demo resources for you, which will have some follow-up information,
as well as a blog post coming out today, which walks through the exact workflow that Ryan
went through, which you can use to follow along with in the recording too.
It looks like there's some questions about comparing Quarto to R Markdown, especially
if you're an R developer.
So just to reiterate from the YouTube channel comments, there was questions of like, is
R Markdown going away?
No, we are still supporting R Markdown.
That will be continued support.
Quarto, I think the advantage there is that there are additional features.
It is easier to switch what that output looks like, whether it be a slide or a report, even
dynamic content or PDF, Word docs, even Confluence now.
So there's a lot of additional features that are in Quarto on top of being able to very
easily work with Python or other languages that you might experience.
And that way you're a little bit more in a non-R centric platform, whereas R Markdown
has to run within an R environment.
Quarto runs outside of an R environment that can run R within it.
So there's a little bit of technicality there, but I think that does open the door for those
multilingual teams that we do see.
Yeah.
And to add on that as well, like, you know, in a lot of ways you can think of Quarto as
like R Markdown 2.0, but it is our way of bringing R Markdown essentially to anyone.
If you're a Python developer, if you're a Julia developer, if you're an observable developer,
you can create a Quarto document.
And one of my coolest things about Quarto is that the way it's designed, it's actually
can support data science languages that may not even exist today.
So in 10, 20, 50, a hundred years from now, the landscape of data science could look completely
different.
There could be new languages that are at that forefront of data science.
And we expect Quarto to be around during that time, can easily work with these languages
as well.
Thank you so much.
Another question that came in over on Slido is, can scheduled reports access secured data
sources safely?
Yeah, I can start to tackle on that one as well.
But one of the benefits of using Posit Connect for your job scheduling is that you have very,
very tight control over who has access to this content and also know who's getting these
email reports as well.
And so when this Quarto document is scheduled to run on Posit Connect, there may require
access to a secure data set, maybe a username and password, maybe an API key or some type
of credentials and Connect makes it very easy to supply those credentials to that piece
of content.
So it has that privileged access to gather that content.
So short answer, yes.
Thank you.
So copying over, just another question over on Slido was, all right, it's copying it over
so it will show on the screen.
In the demo, did each day's rerun of the report overwrite the previous day's report?
Yeah, great question.
So when I clicked on that box, it said publish kind of the output after reruns.
Essentially, there's going to be new data when that report reruns.
It's going to be a new HTML output and that will basically publish on top of the previous
version. But what's really nice about Connect is it actually keeps track of historical
versions that you published and you can always revert back to a previous version or
download that previous version's bundle so you can reproduce a previous version of that
report. So by default, yes, it will kind of build on top every single time you publish
a new report.
And that actually answered one of the other questions, too.
So is there a way to save the previous report?
And in Connect, can you just explain how you access those?
Yeah, so as a publisher, as the owner of that content, there'll be an option at the very
top, kind of close to those access controls we were talking about before, that allows
you to basically access source versions and you can select and see all the various
versions of that report that you publish.
You can easily click on it and then download it.
And so that's probably the easiest way to get access to those previous versions.
Thank you. Chuck had a question over on YouTube, was any advancement in the near future
for more customization to Cordo PowerPoint renderings beyond the current use of a few
master slides?
So there's there's active development on all of the different types of Corto outputs at
the current state.
We still, if you're using Microsoft PowerPoint, you would need to create a few master
slides. But we are continuing to expand what type of output we do support.
So just be on the lookout for Corto updates in the near future.
Yeah, we're putting a ton of development effort into Corto right now.
We're super excited about this tool.
So these are all great questions and things that our engineers are currently thinking
about. Yeah, I will definitely share this recording with the Cordo team as well.
Another Cordo question is, would it be possible one day to give an HTML file instead of
index.com for blog websites or books in the Cordo YAML?
It's a good question. Dave, do you have any thoughts on it?
I truthfully don't know this, but I can do some follow up and see if we can find the
answer here. Apologies.
Yeah, and there's some additional context in the chat as well, and we can follow up and
put some of the Q&A with the recording perhaps.
OK, let me double check.
I think we have covered all the questions over on Slido.
Let me scroll through YouTube.
If there is a question that you had asked earlier and we just happened to miss it, feel
free to just copy that over again in the YouTube chat just so I can see it.
I'm going to give people a few more, let's say one minute here to see if there's any
other questions.
But I want to say thank you so much for joining us today for the demo and thank you for
jumping over here to the Q&A.
If you do want to join this demo again, they're every, sorry, almost at every Wednesday,
the last Wednesday of every month at 11 a.m.
Eastern Time. And you can use this link I just showed here on the screen to add it to
your calendar. And it's going to point you to the playlist of all of the end-to-end
data science workflow demos.
You can see the past two months there as well.
We'll also have a blog post coming out today which will walk through this specific
example that you can use to follow along with the recording as well.
I did also just want to say before I say goodbye here, if you would like to join us
tomorrow, I host the data science hangout here at Posit, which is an open space for us
all to just get to chat about data science and what's going on in the world of data
across different industries.
Every week we feature a different data science leader from the community.
And tomorrow will be our kind of season finale before our July break.
And Joe Chang, Posit CTO and first employee, the creator of Shiny, will be joining us as
our featured leader.
And so you can check out the data science hangouts at the link I just put in the chat
here. But thank you all so much, Brian and Dave, anything you'd like to add?
No, thanks all for joining us, it's been a lot of fun.
Yeah, really appreciate the participation here.
Thank you all.
Yeah, thank you all so much.
Again, if you have follow up questions that you didn't get a chance to cover here or
something you want to cover in more detail, feel free to use that link to schedule some
time to chat with our team as well.
We'd love to talk with you.
Have a great rest of the day, everybody.
Thanks.